# Matplotlib-Challenge

The purpose of this challenge was to analysis a study of the affect of various drug regimens on tumors in mice and plot various combinations of the data in different ways.  Using groupbys, data drops, sorting, data drops, and loops the data was reorganized in order to be plotted using both Pandas and PyPlot from MatPlotlib to create bar graphs, pie charts, line graphs, scatter plots, boxplots, and linear regression.

One of the first tasks after merging the mouse data together with the study results data was to check for any mice that had duplicate IDs and timepoints.  Using the .duplicated() function on Mouse ID and Timepoint, it was found that there was one duplicate Mouse ID.  The dataset was then cleaned to remove all data associated with that entry.

With the cleaned up data, a statistical summary was created grouping the data by the Mouse IDs and the mean, median, standard deviation, variance, and SEM methods.  These grouped dataframes were merged together to show all of the statistics together.  A different method, using the .agg method created the same statistical summary of the data in much less code.

Using Pandas and then Pyplot from Matplotlib, a bar graph was made showing the number of measurements taken for each of the Drug Regimens in the study. The count of measurements was gained by gruoping the data by Drug Regimen and counting the Mouse IDs for each one.  The necessary titles and labels for the axes were created with the plot.  The plots were also limited based on the data used for the graphs.  A pie chart showing the comparison between the amount of male and female mice was also created using Pandas and then PyPlot from MatPlotlib.  This data was gained by grabbing the data for Mouse ID and Sex, dropping duplicates Mouse IDs and then grouping the data by the Sex and counting how many Mouse IDs associated to each gender.  The necessary titles and lables for the graphs were created with the plot.

The next part of the assignment wanted boxplots created from the data of only four specific drug regimens at the latest timepoints.  The data was sorted by Mouse ID and Timepoint in descending order so that the latest timepoint was the first entry for each Mouse ID.  The data was then dropped by Mouse ID leaving just the latest timepoint for each Mouse ID.   A list was then created with the four needed drug regimens as well as an empty list for the associated tumor volumes.  Looping through the list of the four drug regimens needed, if that drug was found in the dataset, the tumor volume was put into a list, and that list was then appended into the empty tumor volume list created prior, resulting in a list of lists to be plotted later.  Quartiles were set at 0.25, 0.50, and 0.75.  The first quartile, third quartile, IQR, Lower Bounds and Upper Bounds were calculated for each of the four drugs and any potential outliers were also called out.  All of these calculations were printed in a Statistic Summary for each of the four drugs.  A subplot was created to hold and display all four boxplots together based on the data calculated in the loop.  All outliers, which for this case there was only one outlier for only one of the drug regimens, were also plotted.

A line graph needed to be created to show the tumor volume over time for any mouse treated with the Capomulin drug.  All data associated with Capomulin was pulled out and data was dropped on Mouse ID.  The Mouse IDs were put into a list to be called for the line graph.  The tumor data for any Mouse ID called from the list was sent to a list as well as the timepoint data into its own list.  This data was then used to plot a line graph for that particular Mouse ID.  The necessary labels and titles were added with the plot.

A scatter plot of Avg Tumor Volume per Mouse Weight for mice treated with Capomulin, along with a linear regression of that data needed to be created.  The Capomulin data was grouped by Mouse ID and then averged using the mean method.  This provided the Avg Tumor Volume and the Mouse Weight since the weight did not change over the course of the data.  The Avg Tumor Volume Data and the Mouse Weight data was pulled into their own lists to be plotted in a scatter plot.  The correlation coefficient and the r value was also calculated from this data.  The r value was used to find the equation of the linear regression line to be plotted in the scatter plot.  Conclusions were then deduced from all the data and graphs created.
